# The Bubble!

To put it simply, supply-side problems, which account for the majority of inflation in many countries, are only partially under the control of central banks. It appears that inflation will continue for some time, particularly in areas like Europe, where the majority of nations anticipate that energy prices will treble as winter approaches. Thus, in an effort to mitigate the effects, the ECB and other central banks in analogous circumstances will be forced to raise interest rates.

Globally, central banks have started to aggressively raise interest rates in response to inflation, and some of them have made it plain that they intend to do so until inflation falls, regardless of the economic consequences. The Federal Reserve is on this list because it raised interest rates, which allowed the EU S economy to technically enter a recession. The Fed intends to keep hiking rates until it is assured that the institution's 2% inflation objective will be met, which, let's just say, implies the recession is about to become a lot less technical.

Rents will drop as some of these commercial spaces are probably purchased and turned into long-term rental homes, putting pressure on more conservative real estate owners who prefer to rent to residents rather than transitory tourists. It's conceivable that many of these investors will sell some of these commercial structures and convert them into short-term rental properties that will compete with Airbnbs, which would lower the price of short-term rentals and put pressure on all the Airbnb hosts who took on too much debt.

These customers will probably all result in several sales at once. As populism rises and the recession becomes worse, more people will search for someone to hold accountable. There will be regulations to control excessive ownership of houses that are not utilized as primary residences or are left empty for an extended period of time, as well as tax rises in certain jurisdictions on the sorts of individuals and institutions who buy homes as investments. The number of times one Airbnb property may be rented out in a year has already begun to be restricted in several locations, including Amsterdam.

According to rumors that keep coming in, short corporations will speed up the rate at which they're laying off workers and probably start reducing pay for top executives. This will lead to fewer leisure and business travel, which would imply reduced revenues for all those air carriers. If employers know their workers can work from home, many would likely forgo office space to save money, which will result in a significant increase in the amount of real estate available, especially in the busiest areas of the largest cities.

Unfortunately, the blame will also be placed on immigrants and refugees, leading to tighter border controls and immigration laws, which will further undermine the demand side of the equation. On the plus side, if conflicts like the one in Ukraine are resolved, many immigrants and refugees will return to their homes, which will lower the demand for housing in the neighborhoods they stayed in during the conflict.

The cost of new property will remain where it is due to the continued increase in mortgage rates. Everyone who purchased extra properties for investment purposes will eventually begin to consider if selling would make more sense, and some of them may do so if the value of their other assets has fallen. Remember that pension funds have suffered losses as well.

We must stress that all of this assumes that central banks won't change course and drop interest rates again, which is a very real possibility but Avanzo researchers don't see it happening, and also [washingtonpost](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2022/01/06/housing-market-forecast-2022/) says it won't happen. [washingtonpost](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2022/01/06/housing-market-forecast-2022/) says it won't happen because they believe that the housing crash will be as unprecedented as the appreciation of housing during the pandemic, click [here](https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2022/01/06/housing-market-forecast-2022/) to read the details.
